I am lucky to have been allowed to study in one of the most prestigious universities in the UK, (ranked in the top 10 in the UK). I would recommend my university to all the students who would like to be part of an international and involving environment. When a student arrives for the first day, they can already feel that the university is not only made of staff and professors but also of all the peers all around ready to help and even assist them to reach their room in one of the student accommodations.

This fascinating and active learning environment offers a great range of activities. Participating in societies or clubs is the best way to practice sports or to gain new skills, useful for the future. Newcastle University aims to guide students to reach their full potential. They are encouraged to earn achievements and achieve their goals through available opportunities, that complement the student experience. Representing this university and my degree in computing is the best way to show that every degree is inspiring. According to my personal experience, spending time using new technologies and interacting with the computer, trying your hand at writing codes or creating a simple application, makes you understand how important is studying an IT degree since our everyday life is going be jointed more and more with technology. I think that everyone should be enthusiastic about new scientific and technological progress.

I like working with young people and helping them to understand how they can act to achieve their potential. So many students aren't as motivated to continue their studies, especially those originating from disadvantaged backgrounds. As a second-year student from Italy, I would like to show them how welcoming this university is and that with a positive working attitude, it is possible to get a degree with a good grade.

During high school, I feel I had a very positive experience. During which, I participated in many activities such as school open days and Science and IT Olympics. Throughout these visit days, I gained a lot from the vocal interactions, practising the ability to enthuse people about higher education. I also very much valued the time I spent with all these new 'future' students.

I am aware that when delivering a presentation you must be able to speak clearly and engage an audience to accurately put your point across. Especially when teaching or informing students (or parents of students). It is also always important to be empathetic with the audience and to be confident in dealing with people because of the variety of auditors. During my first year, I practised presentation and interpersonal skills by doing Software Engineering Professional coursework and activities often as a member of a team.

I understand that 'teamworking' is another important aspect of delivering presentations. This is because you not only have to share tasks and work together, but sometimes you must also handle new difficult situations and, use initiative to overcome problems.

In addition to this, I can contribute with my maths and problem-solving abilities, giving the students all the tools to face every kind of problem. Being a second-year computer science student gives me a good knowledge of programming and computing adding to my love for graphics and app development.

I know how challenging being an international student can sometimes be. I will help reassure others like myself that if they are enthusiastic, they will be successful if they focus on the parts they enjoy most.

**Subject area**

Almost every aspect of our daily life utilises technology. From PCs, laptops and smartphones, to industrial machinery, even all the wearable devices in health and fitness.

Since I was a teenager, I attempted programming with early computers, learning basic web programming, writing a few lines of code to customise forums and then I started to create some pieces of mini-games to play with friends. Technology improved so exponentially quickly within the last century, and it is still advancing so fast. It is for this reason, I am studying for a degree in computing science. I intend on spending a year on placement between Stages 2 and 3 to end the studies with specialist modules such as computer games development. I chose a degree in game development because of an internship I did in Manchester, during which, I learnt how to develop Augmented Reality apps. My work experience allowed me to understand how a team works in coordination between so many members, including some who work remotely to create a high-quality product. During High School, I studied C++ programming language to apply this knowledge to Unity 3D, software that companies use to create apps, to create and animate objects and characters before placing them inside a game.

So far, I think that Computer Science at Newcastle University has been an excellent path for me, learning the basics, meeting interesting people and companies, and ultimately providing me with the possibility to do a placement during my 3rd year.

During Stage 1 'Programming' has been the main module in which I learnt Java, one of the most popular programming languages used to create programs and apps. During the first semester, I studied some historical facts for an architecture background and understand how every piece of technology physically works with logical gates to start using Assembly language. In semester two I created a website after practising HTML, CSS and JavaScript, (some of the programming languages and tools used for developing websites). I think that every developer must have a flexible and adaptable skillset, as it is impossible to know every existing programming language, therefore the programmer should be able to pass from one programming language to another with little to no difficulty.

I am a member of the university's Computing and Technology Society (NUCATS) which organise events and competitions. Last year they hosted a programming competition to win a Google Home mini! I won second place. Since I like editing photos and videos, I am also able to use some tools of the Adobe Creative Suite because, in my spare time, I enjoy programming and trying new software as part of my passions and hobbies.

I believe that the 'proper' university experience should be comprised of time spent not only studying books but also developing your skills and making connections with other people.